Let's not allow all this talk of clones and cloning to stop us from making
sweet games. I played Lamp & Vamp, and someone commented that it felt
a lot like Hoplite. After playing Hoplite, I can see that yeah... these
are more thank just coincidentally similar (probably). They are both
roguelikes, so we can expect that they will share some features, but
the look and feel, movement around the board, the random RPG upgrades,
and the structure of the level are all very similar.

Now, no one has said "Lamp & Vamp is a clone of Hoplite". No one has said
that, and I predict that no one will. I think, though, that I can imagine
a future in which people would say that. 

I really enjoyed 2048. I played it when it showed up on Facebook, and then
I rejoiced at having been a person who beat it when others had not. When
I learned that it was a clone of Threes, at first I thought this wasn't
a big deal. Now, after reading the Threes' guys great article about the
whole matter, I feel like I know just what is damaging about clones, and
about commoditized games. I feel a great deal of sympathy, though, for
people who play a game, love it, and want to make a little variation. There
are countless mashups of games that I'd like to make, usually they involve
straight up copying parts of two games. I'd love to "clone" Out There as
a game about exploring the vast space inside a lover's body, foraging
for proteins to bond into technology, and trying to make contact or rebuild
your lost identity. Clone!

I think, also, that I like the idea of the gaming ecology as a vast
labyrinth. Rather than being able to clearly say who made what games, where
the inspiration came from, or what have you -- I would rather have to forage
for the truth like I did with Threes. It enables conversation and study.

Honesty! If there is a change that I would like to see come from this focus
on clones, it is honesty. More clones, sure, but also more attribution,
more honesty and kind words about how inspiring the original was. We
don't want to live in a world where even the indies are jealously guarding
their IP from traitorous devs, who lurk. We want to be OK with sharing the
fruits of, even, a year's work. So long as everyone is still able to make
enough money, get enough exposure, and feel enough loved.


