Republic to motte picquette 
Walk to renelagh, 
Renelagh to republic 

50 rue descart 15h Sunday 22

In a lot of games with unique mechanics you can see examples of the narrative fighting its way through the system. That is, of the story being told not between moments of gameplay, but during the experience. For example, in portal you never encounter a mirror or any exposition that tells you who you are. You never find a big obvious shrine with a painting of your character (oh, I mean, in portal I). Instead the avatar is only introduced by and through the core gameplay mechanism. You think with portals, and you reflect with portals too. However, for the most part, in that game, puzzle time and story time are separated both in terms of where and when they occur, and in terms of content delivery. 

My main take away from the Contrast demo, other than the fact that it is a sisters' story, is the way story telling and core gameplay are merged. I never felt like I was shadow walking my way from one narrative node to the next, both because the narrative is often delivered by shadows and because little sister is constantly interjecting with her opinion. This is not a driving narrative voice justifying your every action, just overlayed on the gameplay; nor is it navi with her constant barking: little sister, even after 15 minutes, really gives the impression of being your younger sibling. She makes recommendations, but they are delivered in such a way that it always sounds like something she wants to see you do, rather than something she wants you to do. If you've ever spent an afternoon running around with a 5 year old, you will agree that they love to play the leader, but unlike adults, what they really want to see is how amazing you are. The task at hand is less important to them than its skillful execution by their role model. And so it is with little sister. 

Her shadow is often a platform. I got pretty emotional during the trailer when the characters watch the fireworks together, just realizing that this was a game in which a little girl and her female role model could watch fireworks on a balcony in their own game, without needing to dote on the attention of a male lead. I was already sold at that point, but then playing the demo and having the little girl lift up a stick for me to cross its enormous shadow... Something about the role model being both smaller than and much larger than the lead really captures my imagination. Like silvy and Bruno or Alice in Wonderland, or on the back of the north wind, size is a wonderful metaphor and is used to great effect here. Not to mention the fact that you are potentially just ank imaginary friend. 

Hirousseau@yahoo.fr